# ABSTRACT:

Stock Market prices are notoriously difficult to model, but advances in machine learning algorithms in recent years provide renewed possibilities in accurately modeling market performance. One notable addition in modern machine learning is that of Natural Language Processing (NLP). For those modeling a specific stock, performing NLP feature extraction and analysis on the collection of news headlines, shareholder documents, or social media postings that mention the company can provide additional information about the human/social elements to predicting market behaviors. These insights could not be captured by historical price data and technical indicators alone.

President Donald J. Trump is one of the most prolific users of social media, specifically Twitter, using it as a direct messaging channel to his followers, avoiding the traditional filtering and restriction that normally controls the public influence of the President of the United States. An additional element of the presidency that Trump has avoided is that of financial transparency and divesting of assets. Historically, this is done in order to avoid conflicts of interest, apparent or actual. The president is also known to target companies directly with his Tweets, advocating for specific changes/decisions by the company, or simply airing his greivances. This leads to the natural question, how much influence *does* President Trump exert over the financial markets? 

To explore this question, we built multiple types of models attempting to answer this question, using the S&P500 as our market index. First, we built a classification model to predict the change in stock price 60 mins after the tweet. We trained Word2Vec embeddings on President Trump's tweets since his election, which we used as the embedding layer for LSTM and GRU neural networks. 

We next build a baseline time series regression model, using historical price data alone to predict price by trading-hour. We then built upon this, adding several technical indicators of market performance as additional features. 
Finally, we combined the predicitons of our classification model, as well as several other metrics about the tweets (sentiment scores, # of retweets/favorites, upper-to-lowercase ratio,etc.) to see if combining all of these sources of information could explain even more of the variance in stock market prices. 

